h1. YChart CSS Scoping Implementation (v1.0.7)

h2. Summary

All YChart library styles are now scoped under the @.ychart-container@ class to prevent CSS conflicts with host applications. This ensures the library can be safely embedded in any environment without style interference.

h2. Implementation Details

h3. Automatic Scoping

When @YChartEditor.initView()@ is called, the library automatically:
* Adds @ychart-container@ class to the target container element
* All internal styles are prefixed with @.ychart-container@ selector
* CSS resets and base styles only apply within the scoped container

h3. File Changes (v1.0.7)

* *src/styles/ychart-lib-entry.scss* - New entry point for library styles
* *src/styles/_ychart-lib.scss* - All styles wrapped in @.ychart-container { ... }@
* *src/ychartEditor.ts* - Automatically applies @ychart-container@ class at line 251

<pre>
this.viewContainer.classList.add('ychart-container');
</pre>

h2. Integration Guide

h3. CDN Usage (Recommended)

<pre><code class="html">
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
  <!-- Load CSS first to prevent FOUC -->
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@mieweb/ychart@1.0.7/dist/ychart-editor.css">
</head>
<body>
  <!-- Container MUST have defined height -->
  <div id="ychart-app" style="width: 100%; height: 600px;"></div>
  
  <script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@mieweb/ychart@1.0.7/dist/ychart-editor.js"></script>
  <script>
    const yaml = `
- id: 1
  name: CEO
- id: 2
  parentId: 1
  name: CTO
`;
    new YChartEditor().initView('ychart-app', yaml);
  </script>
</body>
</html>
</code></pre>

h3. Critical: Container Height Requirement

The YChart container *must have a defined height* for proper rendering. Choose one approach:

h4. Option A: Explicit Height (Simplest)

<pre><code class="html">
<div id="ychart-app" style="height: 600px;"></div>
</code></pre>

h4. Option B: Full Viewport

<pre><code class="html">
<style>
  html, body { height: 100%; margin: 0; }
  #ychart-app { height: 100%; }
</style>
</code></pre>

h4. Option C: Flexbox Layout (Recommended for Complex Apps)

<pre><code class="html">
<style>
  .app-layout { display: flex; flex-direction: column; height: 100vh; }
  .header { height: 60px; }
  .chart-area { flex: 1; min-height: 0; } /* min-height: 0 is critical! */
</style>
<div class="app-layout">
  <header class="header">My Application Header</header>
  <div id="ychart-app" class="chart-area"></div>
</div>
</code></pre>

h3. NPM/Build Tool Usage

<pre><code class="javascript">
import { YChartEditor } from '@mieweb/ychart';
import '@mieweb/ychart/style.css';

const editor = new YChartEditor().initView('container', yamlData);
</code></pre>

h2. Benefits

* ✅ *Zero Conflicts* - YChart styles won't interfere with host page CSS
* ✅ *Isolation* - Host page styles won't break YChart rendering
* ✅ *Framework Compatible* - Works alongside Bootstrap, Tailwind, Material UI, etc.
* ✅ *Safe Embedding* - Can be embedded in legacy applications without refactoring
* ✅ *Automatic* - No manual configuration needed, scoping happens automatically

h2. Technical Notes

h3. Scope Mechanism

All library styles are wrapped in a single parent selector:

<pre><code class="scss">
// src/styles/_ychart-lib.scss
.ychart-container {
  // All YChart styles here
  font-family: var(--yc-font-family-base);
  position: relative;
  width: 100%;
  height: 100%;
  
  .ychart-editor-panel { ... }
  .ychart-chart-wrapper { ... }
  // etc.
}
</code></pre>

h3. CSS Variables

YChart uses CSS custom properties with @--yc-@ prefix for theming:
* @--yc-color-primary@
* @--yc-color-bg-secondary@
* @--yc-font-family-base@
* etc.

These can be overridden in the host application without breaking isolation.

h2. Migration from Previous Versions

If upgrading from v1.0.6 or earlier:
* No code changes required
* Scoping is automatic
* Existing integrations continue to work
* Just update the version number in your CDN links or package.json

h2. Testing

Verified in production environments:
* ✅ Alongside Bootstrap 5.x
* ✅ Alongside Material-UI
* ✅ Legacy applications with global CSS resets
* ✅ Multiple YChart instances on same page

h2. Related Files

* @src/ychartEditor.ts@ - Main entry point, applies scoping class
* @src/styles/ychart-lib-entry.scss@ - Library style entry point
* @src/styles/_ychart-lib.scss@ - Scoped library styles
* @dist/ychart-editor.css@ - Compiled scoped CSS

h2. Deployment

* *Release*: v1.0.7
* *NPM*: @@mieweb/ychart@1.0.7@
* *CDN*: https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@mieweb/ychart@1.0.7/
* *GitHub*: https://github.com/mieweb/ychart/releases/tag/v1.0.7
